let us take the results for the first three stairs
and analyse it
These are the results of the first three stairs
now let us analysed the third result
How many ways can be directly reache stair
Three
We can reach the third stair only from two ways
that is from stair one and stair two
We cannot directly reach third stair from the bottom because
we can climb either of one stairs or two stairs
at a time
So the solution to third stair must be the extension
of the solution to stair one and stair two let
us see how Let us take the stair One result
and stair two results to reach stair three from stai r
one
How many steps we need to take two steps
So add two to the result of stair one
This will become one two
To read stair three from stair two how many steps
we need to take one step so add one to
the result of stair two
So this will become 111 and 21
See we have got the result of stair three from
the results of previous two stairs Here the total number
of ways to reach stair three is three which is nothing
but the total number of ways to reach stair one
plus total number of ways to reach stair two
Let us apply this observation and arrive at the solution
for the fourth stair
As we discussed we can reach the fourth stair only
from stair two and stair three
So take the result of stairs two and stair three
to reach Stair four from stair two we need to take
two steps so add two to the results of stairs
two this will become 112 and 22 to reach
stair four from stair three
We need to take one step so add one to
the results of stair three
So this will become 1111211 and 121
So these are the solutions to reach stair four and the
total number of ways is five
That is the total number of ways to reach stair
two and stair three
So in general the total number of ways to reach
the end stair is the sum of total number of
ways to reach n minus one stair and total number
of ways to reach n minus 2th stair and this
exactly follows the nth Fibonacci pattern so you can
apply the nth Fibonacci logic to solve this problem
So we will need to store the base results
That is the result of stair of one and stair
of two from stair of three
We can calculate the total number of ways by adding
the previous two results and finally we can return the
result of Nth stair.